# Robot OS (ROS)

Robot OS (ROS) is an open source set of C++ and Python libraries which 
facilitate the delivery of messages, actions, and services for creating robotic and 
autonomous process flows. 


## ROS basics

The ROS set of tools provides the basic foundation for creating autonomous 
systems. 
### ROS Infrastructure
* The **ROS Core** or ROS Master is a server node which keeps the registration 
information of all active nodes and their addresses on the XML-RPC server 
  used for communication between nodes.
* The **ROS Parameter Server** is an API of the ROS Master which manages the 
  parameters and the configuration of the nodes, and can communicate the 
  current parameters to other nodes.
* **Nodes** are servant APIs written in Python or C++, which generate and 
  receive messages, perform actions, and execute commands on the ROS network.
### ROS Messages and Topics:
* **ROS Messages** are a specific predefined format for messages exchanged 
  between nodes. Messages are serialized, and need to be compatible with 
  both C++ and Python. Message formats contain the list of variables and 
  variable classes which comprise the message.
* **ROS Topics** are published message streams generated by a **Publisher**  
  which **subscriber** nodes can subscribe to using the TCP protcol. Note 
  that a node can have none, one, or multiple Publisher and a Subscriber APIs of one or both 
  types, and publishers/subscribers operate independently of eachother. *Note: 
  The relationship between publishers and subscribers is 
  one to 
  many.*
### ROS Services and Actions
* **ROS Services** are special synconous APIs which allow for a node to 
  request an 
  action to be performed by another node as part of its operating loop. 
  Unlike topics, nodes and service APIs cannot execute additional processes 
  until the API service call has been closed.
* **ROS Actions** are special kinds of Asyncronous services which do not 
  occupy the requesting node. Actions are given an objective to be perfomed 
  and which can be modified; they also provide incrementatl status on actions.
